Format 2101 User Guide (#296)
AY2324S1-CS2103T-F11-1/tp: docs/2101UserGuide.md

---
layout: page
title: CCACommander Ultra Promax Xtra 9000PLUS - User Guide
---
<link rel="stylesheet" href="./assets/css/guide.css">

<figure>
    <img src="images/logo_removebg.png"
         alt="CCACommander Logo">
</figure>

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## Table of Contents
{: .no_toc }
1. Table of Contents
{:toc}

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>
## Introduction

> As a Co-curricular Activity (CCA) head, do you find yourself struggling to manage your CCA members’ attendance and record the array of events that your CCA has?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a Co-curricular Activity (CCA) head, do you find yourself struggling to manage your CCA members’ attendances and record the array of events that your CCA has?
```

> Are the heaps of spreadsheets you are using to manage them making you feel overwhelmed? Well, fear not, **CCACommander Ultra ProMax Xtra 9000PLUS** is here to save the day!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Are the heaps of spreadsheets you are using to manage them making you feel overwhelmed? Well, fear not, **CCACommander Ultra Promax Xtra 9000PLUS** is here to save the day!
```

:bulb: Boxes with the :bulb: icon contain additional tips and tricks to help you get the most out of CCACommander.
</div>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> ## Quick start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Quick Start
```

<div markdown="block" class="alert alert-warning">

> :warning: We assume that you have some basic knowledge of terminal commands. You can learn how to use the terminal with [this guide](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/command-line-for-beginners/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:warning: We assume that you have some basic knowledge of terminal commands. You can learn how to use the terminal with [this guide](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/command-line-for-beginners/).
```

</div>

> 1. Ensure you have Java `11` or above installed in your computer by following [this guide](https://phoenixnap.com/kb/check-java-version-on-mac-windows).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure you have Java `11` installed in your computer by following [this guide](https://phoenixnap.com/kb/check-java-version-on-mac-windows).
```

2. Download the latest `ccacommander.jar` from [here](https://github.com/AY2324S1-CS2103T-F11-1/tp/releases).

3. Put the downloaded file into a folder of your choice (preferably a new empty folder).

4. Open a command terminal in the folder you put the CCACommander file in, and use the `java -jar ccacommander.jar` command to run the application. A GUI resembling the one shown below should appear in a few seconds. Note how the app contains some sample data.<br>
    <figure>
        <img src="images/Ui.png"
             alt="Ui">

>         <figcaption>Fig 1: Application upon running</figcaption>

Reviewer: Should the figcaption be changed to something more descriptive like "Initial application display".

Author: Sure

**Event List**: View the events stored in CCACommander. <br>
**Storage Location**: Locate where your CCACommander data is stored in your computer.

## Command History

> You can quickly recall previously entered commands for convenience as CCACommander stores almost all (see the info card below to see what commands are stored) commands entered by the user. <br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can quickly recall previously entered commands for convenience as CCACommander stores almost all (see the info card below to see what commands are stored) commands entered by the user. 
<br>
```

Currently, in the PDF format, there is no spacing between this sentence and the next sentence.
![Screenshot 2023-11-13 at 11 42 52 PM](https://github.com/AY2324S1-CS2103T-F11-1/tp/assets/66866338/3e4b67c0-37d3-4fb3-bdbd-5562cc3b3a6c)

Author: ```suggestion
You can quickly recall previously entered commands for convenience as CCACommander stores almost all (see the info card below to see what commands are stored) commands entered by the user. 

```

> Upon selecting the command box, you can use the <kbd>↑</kbd> to <kbd>↓</kbd> key to navigate through the commands entered .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon selecting the command box, you can use the <kbd>↑</kbd> to <kbd>↓</kbd> key to navigate through the commands entered.
```

Example:
1. You have just marked attendance for the first member in the member list using the `editEnrolment m/1 e/1 r/Present` command.
2. You can then use <kbd>↑</kbd> to get `editEnrolment m/1 e/1 r/Present`
3. You can edit the member index to get `editEnrolment m/2 e/1 r/Present` to mark the second member as present.

> <div markdown="block" class="alert alert-info">:information_source: CCACommander will not store 2 of the same commands if they were entered twice in a row. Likewise, "commands" containing exclusively of blank spaces will not be stored as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div markdown="block" class="alert alert-info">:information_source: CCACommander will not store 2 of the same commands if they were entered twice in a row. Likewise, commands containing exclusively of blank spaces will not be stored as well.
```

Creating a new event is no longer a hassle as it can be done with just one simple command - `createEvent`!

Here's how you can use it:<br>
`createEvent n/EVENT_NAME l/LOCATION d/DATE [t/TAG]...`

Here is an example command where we create an event **named** "Party" held at the **location** "Raffles Hall" on the
**date** 2023-09-16, with **tag** "Dinner" and **tag** "Sem1":

`createEvent n/Party l/Raffles Hall d/2023-09-16 t/Dinner t/Sem1`

<figure>
    <img src="images/CreateEventPostCommand.png"
         alt="createEvent Post Command">
    <figcaption>Fig 4: After executing the <code>createEvent</code> command</figcaption>
</figure>

<hr class="command-separator">

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>
#### Edit an Event : `editEvent`

> If you forgot to note any important details, or realise that you made a mistake in any field of the event created,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you forget to note any important details, or realise that you made a mistake in any field of the event created,
```

> the `editEvent` command is here to help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `editEvent` command is here to help!
```

> Are the number of events piling up? To clear the clutter, you can delete any unwanted event from CCACommander with `deleteEvent`!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Are your events piling up? To clear the clutter, you can delete any unwanted event from CCACommander with `deleteEvent`!
```

Here's how you can use it:<br>
`deleteEvent EVENT_INDEX`

Here is an example command where we delete the event at **index** 1:

`deleteEvent 1`

<div markdown="block" class="alert alert-info">:information_source: The `EVENT_INDEX` parameter refers to the index number shown in the **currently displayed** event list.
</div>

<hr class="feature-class-separator">

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>
### Enrolment Commands

> Enrolments are a way for you to manage your members’ involvement in your events. The enrolment commands below are the bread-and-butter for your participation tracking needs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enrolments are a way for you to manage your members’ involvements in your events. The enrolment commands below are the bread-and-butter for your participation tracking needs:
```

`enrol m/MEMBER_INDEX e/EVENT_INDEX [h/NUMBER_OF_HOURS] [r/REMARK]`

Here is an example command where we enrol the member at **member index** 1 to the event at **event index** 1, where our member
has contributed 2 **hours**, and we want to leave a "Role: Photographer" **remark** to reflect their role as a photographer:

`enrol m/1 e/1 h/2 r/Role: Photographer`

<hr class="command-separator">

> #### Edit an enrolment: `editEnrolment`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Edit an Enrolment: `editEnrolment`
```

changing the number of **hours** to 5 and the **remark** to "Role: Exco" to reflect the member’s role as an exco member:

`editEnroment m/1 e/2 h/5 r/Role: Exco`

<hr class="command-separator">

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>
#### Unenrol a Member from an Event: `unenrol`
If your member is no longer involved in a particular event, you can easily remove them from the event by using the `unenrol` command!

Here’s how you can use it:<br>
`unenrol m/MEMBER_INDEX e/EVENT_INDEX`

Here is an example command where we unenrol the member at **member index** 1 from the event at **event index** 1:

`unenrol m/1 e/1`

<div markdown="block" class="alert alert-info">:information_source: The `MEMBER_INDEX`/`EVENT_INDEX` parameter refers to the index number shown in the **currently displayed** member/event list.
</div>
<hr class="feature-class-separator">

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>
### View Commands
In CCACommander, you can quickly change the view to fit your current use case, be it to check for the enrolment of an event, 
searching for a member and more!

#### View Events of Member : `viewMember`

> If you want to view the events in which a particular member is enrolled, you can do so via the `viewMember` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to view the events in which a particular member is enrolled to, you can do so via the `viewMember` command.
```

Here’s how you can use it:<br>
`viewMember MEMBER_INDEX`

> Here is an example command where we want to view the events in which the **member** at index 3 in our member list is enrolled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example command where we want to view the events in which the **member** at index 3 in our member list is enrolled to:
```

> Forgot how to edit a specific enrolment or how to unenrol members? The `help` command will allow you to clarify and recall any features of the app by providing you a link to our friendly and informative user guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Forgot how to edit a specific enrolment or how to unenrol members? The `help` command will allow you to clarify and recall any features of CCACommander by providing you with a link to our friendly and informative user guide.
```

If it’s time to call it a day for your CCA tasks, you can use the `exit` command to quit the app.

Here’s how you can use it:<br>
`exit`

<div markdown="block" class="alert alert-info">:information_source: The <code>exit</code> command exists for your convenience. 

> It performs the same task as the cross in the top bar and the Exit button in the File sub-menu item

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It performs the same task as the cross in the top bar and the Exit button in the File sub-menu item.
```

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

> ## Command summary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Command Summary
```

**Edit an enrolment** | `editEnrolment m/MEMBER_INDEX e/EVENT_INDEX [h/NUMBER_OF_HOURS] [r/REMARK]` <br> e.g. `editEnrolment m/1 e/1 h/0 r/Absent due to Covid`
**View members of event** | `viewEvent EVENT_INDEX` <br> e.g.`viewEvent 1`
**View events of member** | `viewMember MEMBER_INDEX` <br> e.g.`viewMember 1`
**Find member in list** | `findMember MEMBER_NAME [MORE_NAMES]...` <br> e.g.`findMember alice`
**Find event in list** | `findEvent EVENT_NAME [MORE_NAMES]...` <br> e.g.`findEvent party`
**List all members and all events** | `list`
**Redo** | `redo`
**Undo** | `undo`
**Help** | `help`
**Exit** | `exit`

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

> ## List of acceptable values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## List of Acceptable Values
```

**Edit an enrolment** | `editEnrolment m/MEMBER_INDEX e/EVENT_INDEX [h/NUMBER_OF_HOURS] [r/REMARK]` <br> e.g. `editEnrolment m/1 e/1 h/0 r/Absent due to Covid`
**View members of event** | `viewEvent EVENT_INDEX` <br> e.g.`viewEvent 1`
**View events of member** | `viewMember MEMBER_INDEX` <br> e.g.`viewMember 1`
**Find member in list** | `findMember MEMBER_NAME [MORE_NAMES]...` <br> e.g.`findMember alice`
**Find event in list** | `findEvent EVENT_NAME [MORE_NAMES]...` <br> e.g.`findEvent party`
**List all members and all events** | `list`
**Redo** | `redo`
**Undo** | `undo`
**Help** | `help`

> **Exit** | `exit`

Reviewer: Commands in Command Summary are in different order from those in feature description.
